= Ruby class for handling basic Luhn number generation and verification

Includes a class to handle Swedish civic numbers (Personnummer)
That interface supports checking validity (length, valid date and satisfies luhn),
returning the sex, the control digit and generating random civic numbers.

== Install

  $ gem install luhn

== Usage:

=== Basic Luhn

  Luhn.valid?('0465827879483596') # true
  Luhn.control_digit('046582787948359') # 6
  Luhn.generate(n) # returns a random number of n length that satisfies luhn

  '0465827879483596'.valid_luhn? # true
  0465827879483596.valid_luhn?   # true

=== Swedish civic numbers

  civic_number = Luhn::CivicNumber.new('19391030-3183')
  civic_number.valid? # true
  civic_number.sex    # 'male'
  civic_number.male?  # true
  civic_number.control_digit # 3

  '391030-3183'.civic_number? # true
  3910303183.civic_number?    # true

=== Luhn Mod N (from http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Luhn_mod_N_algorithm)

The Luhn mod N algorithm is an extension to the Luhn algorithm that allows it to
work with sequences of a variety of characters. This can be useful when a check digit
is required to validate an identification string composed of letters, a combination
of letters and digits or even any arbitrary set of characters.

  luhnModN = Luhn::LuhnModN.new('ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ')
  luhnModN.generate('ABC') # 'ABCV'
  luhnModN.valid?('ABCV') # true
  luhnModN.check_character('ABC') # 'V'

== About the Luhn algorithm (from http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Luhn_formula)

The Luhn algorithm or Luhn formula, also known as the "modulus 10" or "mod 10"
algorithm, is a simple checksum formula used to validate a variety of
identification numbers, such as credit card numbers, IMEI numbers,
National Provider Identifier numbers in US and Canadian Social Insurance Numbers.
It was created by IBM scientist Hans Peter Luhn and described in U.S. Patent
No. 2,950,048, filed on January 6, 1954, and granted on August 23, 1960.

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2010 Joel Junström. See LICENSE for details.
